README.md, before:

# learn-smart-contract-in-rust

Checkout detail learning notes in each sub directory.

## Overview

In this repo, I plan to go over some popular smart contract programming environments that is production ready in rust. As of 2022, other than EVM, majority of smart contract platforms use Wasm based VM, with a few using other less common VM. But almost all of them use rust as the major programming language, due to its well support for Wasm and low level programming.

Although most are based on Wasm, but they are still pretty different, even among different CosmWasm based chains, it's not guaranteed program will be compatible due to chain environment and version. I also aim to understand what does the difference look like in detail here.

## Plan to cover

| VM                                                                                                               | Usage                                                       | Intro                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Note  | My Progress                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [CosmWasm](http://cosmwasm.com/)                                                                                 | [Cosmos SDK](https://docs.cosmos.network/main) based chains | <ul> <li> Wasm based</li> <li> Most popular VM in the Cosmos ecosystem </li> <li> Used [actor model](https://book.cosmwasm.com/actor-model.html) to better enhance security and adapt to an async world in Cosmos?</li> </ul> | to do | [Ongoing](cosmwasm/README.MD) <ul> <li> [zero to hero](https://github.com/Callum-A/cosmwasm-zero-to-hero/) ✅ </li></ul> |
| [Near Wasm](https://github.com/near/nearcore/tree/master/runtime)                                                | [Near](https://near.org/)                                   | <ul> <li> Wasm based </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                                                                              | to do | Not started                                                                                                              |
| [sealevel](https://medium.com/solana-labs/sealevel-parallel-processing-thousands-of-smart-contracts-d814b378192) | [Solana](https://solana.com/)                               | <ul> <li> Not Wasm based </li> <li> Code like pure rust program </li> <li> With an emphasize on parallelization, achieved by each contract specifying the state it touched </li></ul>                                         | to do | Not started                                                                                                              |
| [ckb-vm](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-vm)                                                                | [Nervos](https://www.nervos.org/)                           | <ul> <li> RISC-V based</li> <li>Code in UTXO model instead of account model </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                       | to do | Not started                                                                                                              |
| [ink](https://use.ink/)                                                                                          | [Substrate](https://substrate.io/) based chains             | <ul> <li> Wasm based </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                                                                              | to do | Not started                                                                                                              |
| [FVM](https://fvm.filecoin.io/)                                                                                  | [Filecoin](https://filecoin.io/)                            | <ul> <li> Wasm based </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                                                                              | to do | Not started                                                                                                              |

Commit message:

completed near token factory
add solana hello world using anchor

update dependency to latest version and format

update cw token factory

add ckb resources

add nervos sudt example

README.md, after:

# learn-smart-contract-in-rust

Checkout detail learning notes in each sub directory.

## Overview

In this repo, I plan to go over some popular smart contract programming environments that is production ready in rust. As of 2022, other than EVM, majority of smart contract platforms use Wasm based VM, with a few using other less common VM. But almost all of them use rust as the major programming language, due to its well support for Wasm and low level programming.

Although most are based on Wasm, but they are still pretty different, even among different CosmWasm based chains, it's not guaranteed program will be compatible due to chain environment and version. I also aim to understand what does the difference look like in detail here.

## Plan to cover

| VM                                                                                                               | Usage                                                       | Intro                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | Note  | My Progress                                                                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| [CosmWasm](http://cosmwasm.com/)                                                                                 | [Cosmos SDK](https://docs.cosmos.network/main) based chains | <ul> <li> Wasm based</li> <li> Most popular VM in the Cosmos ecosystem </li> <li> Used [actor model](https://book.cosmwasm.com/actor-model.html) to better enhance security and adapt to an async world in Cosmos?</li> </ul> | Actor model | Completed zero to hero and token factory |
| [Near Wasm](https://github.com/near/nearcore/tree/master/runtime)                                                | [Near](https://near.org/)                                   | <ul> <li> Wasm based </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                                                                              | Calling contract is async | Completed fungible token and token factory                                                                                                              |
| [sealevel](https://medium.com/solana-labs/sealevel-parallel-processing-thousands-of-smart-contracts-d814b378192) | [Solana](https://solana.com/)                               | <ul> <li> [LLVM BPF based](https://docs.solana.com/developing/on-chain-programs/overview#berkeley-packet-filter-bpf) </li> <li> Code like native rust program </li> <li> With an emphasize on parallelization, achieved by each contract specifying the state it touched </li></ul>                                         | - | Finished hello world                                                                                                             |
| [ckb-vm](https://github.com/nervosnetwork/ckb-vm)                                                                | [Nervos](https://www.nervos.org/)                           | <ul> <li> RISC-V based</li> <li>Code in UTXO model instead of account model </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                       | - | Not started                                                                                                              |
| [ink](https://use.ink/)                                                                                          | [Substrate](https://substrate.io/) based chains             | <ul> <li> Wasm based </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                                                                              | - | Not started                                                                                                              |
| [FVM](https://fvm.filecoin.io/)                                                                                  | [Filecoin](https://filecoin.io/)                            | <ul> <li> Wasm based </li> </ul>                                                                                                                                                                                              | - | Not started                                                                                                              |
